---
title: Mental Health
layout: pages
---

![COVID affects our mental health](https://assets.teenvogue.com/photos/5ec2ea33939ed3e75497b6dd/16:9/w_2560%2Cc_limit/GettyImages-1179507984.jpg)

Mental health is an issue that is a global problem that affects us emotionally.
Every year in the month of may is mental health awareness month.

If you want to learn more about mental health awareness, click
[here](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwijocygiJTzAhXeRjABHfhaANsQFnoECA4QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.mentalhealth.gov%2Fbasics%2Fwhat-is-mental-health&usg=AOvVaw0PZzAQzn4mOUfaJEwuc5ug)!

---

According to https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/publications/how-to-mental-health,
here are 10 tips that you can follow to look after your mental health:

## Talk about your feelings

Talking about your feelings can help you stay in good mental health and deal
with times when you feel troubled.

## Keep active

Regular exercise can boost your self-esteem and can help you concentrate, sleep,
and feel better. Exercise keeps the brain and your other vital organs healthy,
and is also a significant benefit towards improving your mental health.

## Eat well

Your brain needs a mix of nutrients in order to stay healthy and function well,
just like the other organs in your body. A diet that’s good for your physical
health is also good for your mental health.

## Drink sensibly

We often drink alcohol to change our mood. Some people drink to deal with fear
or loneliness, but the effect is only temporary.

When the drink wears off, you feel worse because of the way the alcohol has
affected your brain and the rest of your body. Drinking is not a good way to
manage difficult feelings.

## Keep in touch

There’s nothing better than catching up with someone face to face, but that’s
not always possible. You can also give them a call, drop them a note, or chat to
them online instead. Keep the lines of communication open: it’s good for you!

## Ask for help

None of us are superhuman. We all sometimes get tired or overwhelmed by how we
feel or when things don’t go to plan.

If things are getting too much for you and you feel you can’t cope, ask for
help. Your family or friends may be able to offer practical help or a listening
ear.

Local services are there to help you.

## Take a break

A change of scene or a change of pace is good for your mental health.

It could be a five-minute pause from cleaning your kitchen, a half-hour lunch
break at work, or a weekend exploring somewhere new. A few minutes can be enough
to de-stress you. Give yourself some ‘me time’.

## Do something you’re good at

What do you love doing? What activities can you lose yourself in? What did you
love doing in the past?

Enjoying yourself can help beat stress. Doing an activity you enjoy probably
means you’re good at it, and achieving something boosts your self-esteem

## Accept who you are

We’re all different. It’s much healthier to accept that you’re unique than to
wish you were more like someone else. Feeling good about yourself boosts your
confidence to learn new skills, visit new places and make new friends. Good
self-esteem helps you cope when life takes a difficult turn.

## Care for others

> Friends are really important… We help each other whenever we can, so it’s a
> two-way street, and supporting them uplifts me.

Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with
people close to you. It can even bring you closer together.
